>> Woodruff: HOPES FOR A MOVE
TOWARD UNITY IN IRARE DWEASHED
AS THE PARLIAMENT FAILED TO FORM
A NEW GOVERNMENT, WHILE
INSURGENTS CLAIM AN "ISLAMISTE"E
BORDER INTO SYRIA.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, WITH A
SHORTAGE OF BRIDES IN CHINA,
VIETNAMESE WOMEN ARE
GLY BEING TRAFFICKED
INTO THE NATIONEXTN OOR AND
FOED INTO MAIAGEOR
PROSTITUTION.
>> THE GIRLS THAT WE SEE, THEY
ARE GIVEN A
DO YOU WANT TO MARRY SOMEBODY OR
DOOUANT  WTO WORK  THE
BROTHELS.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, WE LOOK BACK
AT THE SUPREME COURT'S MAJOR
DECISIONS THIS TERM.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: HVY FIGHTING
SEIZED EASTERN UKRAINE TODAY,
ONE DAY AFTER PRESIDENT PETRO
POROSHENKO ENDED A CEASE-FIER
WITH PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS.
WITHIN HOS, A GUNATTL BBROKE
OUT IN DONETSK, AS REBELS
CAPTURED THE INTERIOR MINISTRY
HEADQUARTERS.
GOVERNMENT FORCES ALSO BOMBARDED
REBEL BAES AND CHECKPOINTS.
IN MOSCOW, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VDIMIR PUTIN SAID T BLAME
LIES ENTIRELY ON THE KIEV
GOVERNMENT.
>> ( translated ): UNFORTUNATELY
PRESIDENT POR
DECISION TO RESUME MILITARY
OPERAONS.
AND WE COULD NOT, WHEN I SAY WE,
I MEAN MYSELF AND COLLEAGUES
FROM EUROPE, WE COULDN'T
CONVIM THHIAT T
SUNAE, DABLE AND LONG-
TERM PEACE CANNOT LIE THROUGH
WAR.
>> Woodruff: SEPARATELY,
EUROPEAN UNION AMBASSADORS PUT
OFF DECIDING ON NEW ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS AIMED AT RUSS.
THEY SAID THEY'LL MAKE A
DECISION NEXT WEEK.
A CAR BOMBING IN NIGERIA HAS
KILLED AT LEAST 56 PEOPLE IN AS.
THE EXPLOSIOERUPN TED TODAY IN
THE NORTHEASTERN STATE OF BORNO,
WHERE MORE THAN 200 GIRLS WERE
ABDUCTED EARLIER THIS YEAR.
THERE WERE NO IMMEDIATE CLAIMS
OF RESPONSIBILITY, BUT OFFICIALS
BLAMED THE ISLAMIST GROUP
BOKO HARAM.
IN ISRAEL, BUS LOADS OF MOURNERS
TURNED OUT FOR THE FUNEL OFRAI ,
APPARENTLY MURDERED BY
PALESTINIAN MILITANTS IN THE
WEST BANK.
THE YOUNG MEN'S BODIES WERE
FOUND YESTERDAY.
LINDSEY HILSUM REPORTS FROM
JERUSALEM
>> Reporter: TENS OF THOUSANDS
CAME TO MODIIN CEMETERY BETWEEN
TEL AVIV AND JERUSALEM
URN THREE ISRAELI TEENAGERS:OLDH
16-YEAOLDS NAFTALI FRANKEL AND
GILAD SHER.
THE FUNERAL WAS A CHANNEL FOR
PUBLIC OUTRAGE AS WELL AS THE
PRIVATE GRIEF OF THE FAMILIES,
AND A POLITICAL EVENT ATTENDED
BY ISRAEL'S TOP LEADERSHIP.
>> THEY GLORNIED DTH AND WE
GLORIFY LIFE.
THEY FLOOR CFYELTY, AND
GLORIFY MERCY.
IN HEBRON LAST NIGHT ISRAELI
SOLDIERS RAIDED THE HOUSE OF
AMAR ABU AYSHA, ONE OF TWO
PALESTINIANS SUSPECTED OF KIDNAP
AND MURDER, HIS RELATIVES KNEW
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN NEXT: ISRAELI
FORCES DEMOLISHED THE FAMILY
HOME.
E T MENBOTH ASSOCIAT
WITH HAMAS, T NOBELIEVED TO
E ACTING UNDER ORDERS FROM THE
LEADERSHIP, ARE STILL ON THE
RUN.
IN JENIN THE FUNERAL OF ANOTHER
YOUNG MAN, 19-YEAR-OLD
PALESTINIAN, YUSUF AL ZAGHA,
ILLED BY ISRAELI FORCES WHO
SAID HE HAD THROWN A GRENADE AT
THEM YESTERDAY.
HIS DEATH BRINGS TO SIX THE
NUMBER OF PALESTINIANS KILLED IN
OPERATION BROTHER'S KPER, THE
ISRAELI TEMPTO CTUREHE
KILLERS OF THEESHIVA STUDENTS.
LAST NIGHT, ISRAEL ATTACKED 34 I
JUST AGAINST HAMAS BUALSO THE
RESIDENTS OF THE TERRITO THERE
MAY BE MORE TO COME.
>> odruWof: THOSE AIR STRIKES
CAME AFTER MILITAN ITSGAZAN
FIRED MORE ROCKETS INTO ISRAEL.
THE ISRAELI CABINET IS STILL
NSIDERING A DIRECT RESPONSE TO
THE KILLING OF THE TEENAGERS.
CABINET LEADERS IN JAPAN TODAY
LOOSENED LIMITS ON THE COUNTRY'S
MILITARY THAT HAVE BEEN IN PCE
SINCE WORLD WAR TWO.
THE NEW POLICY MEANS JAPANESE
FORCES  WILL NOW BE PERMITTED TO
JOIN IN DEFENDING ALLIES, AND
NOT ONLY JAPAN PROPER.
PRIME MINISTER SHINZO ABE ARGUED
THE CHANGE IS ESSENTIAL IN T
FACE OF CHINA'S GROWING MILITARY
POWER.
ITS FIRST
FEME FOUR-STAR ADMIRA WHOL,
ALSO PPENHATO BE THE FIRST
AFRICAN AMERICAN TO HOLD THAT
RANK.
MICHELLE HOWARD WAS FORMALLY
ROMOTED TO
SHE'S BEEN IN T SERHECE FOR
32 YEARS.
IT BECAME OFFICIAL DURING AEMONN
IN THE MILITARY, CATED AT
ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY.
IFOU DON'T BELIEVE TODAY
IR AWHEN CALD TO
ORDER FOUR SR SHOULDER BOARDS
FOR WOMEN THEY DIDN'T EXIST.
A SPECIAL CONTCT WRA SENAND
YOU FOLKS ARE EING THE FIRST
SET IN THE HISTORY OF THE UNITED
STATES NAVY.
>> Woodruff: HOWARD NOW ASSUMES
THE NAVY'S SECOND HIGHEST POST
AS VICE CHIEF OF NATION
OPERATIONS. MIDWEST GOT EVEN
MORE RAIN OVERNIANGHTODAY,
AFTER A WEEK ODOWNPOURS.
FLOODING ALONG THE MISSISPPI
RIVER D OTHER WATERWAYS.
IN IOWA, CREWS SEARCHED F AOR
TEENAGER WHO WAS SWEPT AWAY.
TODAY'S RAIN ALSO SWAMPED A
MAJOR HIGHWAY LEADING TO
CHICAGO'S O'HARE INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT.
THE NEW HEALTH CARE LAW IS
ACFG YEINT ANOTHER CHALLENGE.
IT TURNS OUT THERE ARE
DISCREPANCIES FOR MANY OF THE
EIGHT MILLION PEOPLE WHOIGN
COVERAGE IN THE PERSONAL
INFORMATION THAT WAS SHARED WITH
THE HEALTH EXCHANGES.FM GEING S.
THE INSPEOR GENERAL'S OFFICE
AT THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMASERVN ES
REPORTED THE FINDINGS.OFFICIALSR
UP MOST OF THE CASES THIS
SUMMR.E
AMERICAN AUTO MAKERS SAW THEIR
SALES GROW AGAIN IN JUNEBUT AT
RYSR LED THE WAY WITH A 9
CHRYSLER LED THE WAY WITH A %
INCREASE.
GENERAL MOTORS, TOYOTA AND
HYUNDAI ALL REPORTED SMALLER
GAINS.
FORD SALES FELL
FORD SALES FELL 6%.
>> odruff: ON WALL STREET,
JULY GOT OFF TO A FAST START
AFR UPBEAT REPORTS ON
MANUFACTURING IN THE U.S.ND A
CHINA.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED  129 POINTS TO CLOSE AT A
RECORD 16,956.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 50 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,8.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED 13, TO
FINISH AT 1973, ALSO A RECORD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
IRAQ'S FRACTIOUS POLITICS;
PROTESTS IN HONG KONG CALL FOR
THE RIGHT TO CHOOSE THEIR OWN
LEADERS;
VIETNAM'S STRUG
TRAFFICKING;
FACEBOOK'S CONOVERSIAL STUDY
TESTING USERS' EMOTIONS;
AND THE TERM THAT JUST ENDED AT
THE SUPREME COURT.
>> Woodruff: THE UNITED NATIONS
REPORTED TODAY THAT 2,400 IRAQIS
WERE KIED IN THE MONTH OF
JUNE, MAKING IT THE DEADLIEST
MONTH IN THE COUNTRY SINCE 2007.
MEANWHILE, IN BAGHDAD TODAY -
DESPERATE HOPES FOR POLITICAL
UNITY WERE DASHED - AS THERE
MORE SIGNS THROUGHOUT IRAQ
SHOWING A NATION PULLING ART.PA
OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGAT WRENER
REPORTS.
>> Warner: FINGER-POINTG AND
SHOUTING MATCHES DOMINATED
TODAY'S BRIEF FIRST MEETING OF
THE NEW IRAQI PARLIAMENT.
IN LESSHAN  TO HOURS, MINORITY
SUNNI AND KURDISH LAWMAKERS
WALKED OUT.
AFTER MAJORITY SHIITES FAILED TO
AGREE ON A NEW PRIME MINISTER TO
REPLACE NOURI AL-MALIKI.
HE'S WIDELY BLAMED FOR
ALIENATING BOTH SUNNIS AND
KURDS.
THE DEADLOCK FURTHER DELAYS THE
FORMATION OF A NEW INCLUSIVE
GOVERNMENT, LEAVING BAGHDAD
RESIDENTS FEAUL AS SUNNI
INSURGENTS ADVANCE TOWARD THE
CAPITAL.
>> ( translated ): A LARGE
NUMBER OF THE BLOCS WILL NOT
ATTEND THE PARLIAMENT SESSION,
SO I DON'T BELIEVE THEY WILL BE
ABLE TO FORM A GOVERNMENT UNDER
THE CURRENT CIRCUMSTANCES.
PEOE ARE NOW AFRAID.
THEY DO NOT KNOW WHAT WILL
HAPPEN.
THE FUTURE OF THE IRAQI PEOPLE
IS UNKNOWN.
>>arner: FURTHER FRACTURING
HOPE OF UNITY: MASSOUD BARZANI,
PRESIDENT OF IRAQ'S KURDISH
REGION, SAID AGAIN HE ANS
A REFERENDUM ON INDEPENDENCE IN
THE COMING MONTHS.
AND INSURGENTS OF THE NEWLY
RENAMED "ISLAMIC STATE," THE
FORMER I.S.I.L. CLAIMED NEW
BATTLEFIELD GAINS, CAPTURING THE
SYRIAN TOWN OF BOUKAMAL NEAR THE
IRAQI BORDER.
IN WASHINGTON, IRAQ'S AMBASSADOR
TO THE UNITED STATES, LUKMAN
FAILY, CALLED FOR AMERICAN AIR
STIKRS.E
THESE SUNNI "ISLAMIC STATE"
FIGHTERS HAVE SEIZEDONTR C OF
A SWATH OF TERRITORY STRETCHING
FROM NORTHERN SYRIA INTO WESTERN
IRAQ.
ON SUNDAY, THE GROUP DECLARED
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN "ISLAMIC
CALIPHATE," WITH ROOTS REACHING
BACK 1,400 YEARS.
IT WAS A DECLARATION BOTH
GRANDIOSE AND BRASH; A SPOKESMAN
SAID THE GROUP'S LEADER, ABU
BAKR AL BAGHDADI, HAS TAKEN ON A
NEW TITLE: "CALIF IBRAHIM."( trE
IS THE IM AND CALIPH FOR THE
MUSLIMS EVERYWHERE.
ODAY, THE SECRETIVE
BAGHDADI  MADE HIS FIRST PUBLIC
STATEMENT ABOUT THE CALIPHATE,
IN THIS AUO RECORDING.
>> ( translated ): RUSH, OH
MUSLIMS TO YOURTATE.
YES, IT IS YOUR STATE.
RUSH, BECAE SYRIA IS NOT FOR
THE SYRIANS, AND IRAQ IS NOT FOR
THE IRAQIS.
OH MUSLIMS EVERYWHERE, WHOEVER
IS CAPABLE OF PERFORMING
EMIGRATION TO THE ISLAMIC STATE,
THEN LET HIM DO SO.
>> Warner: SOME MUSLIMS IN
BAGHDAD ARE  DISMISSIVE:
>> ( translated ): THIS
DECLART TO BE
MERELY A FLASH IN THE PAN, GOD
WILLING BECAUSE THE WORLD IS A
CIVILIZED ONE AND THE COUNTRIES
ARE DEVELOPED AN SUCH BEHAVIOR
AND THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE
CALIPHATE IS A STEP BACKWARD.
>> Warner: THE CALIPHATE, ARABIC
FOR "SUCCESSION," WAS CREATED
AFTER THE DEATH OF THE PROPHET
MUHAMMAD IN 632 A.D.
THE "CALIPH" WAS MEANT TO BE
BOTH THE POLITICAL AND SPIRITUAL
LEADER OF ALL MUSLIMS, BUT AS
THE SUNNI-SHIITE SPLIT QUICKLY
EMERGED, MOST  CALIPHATES THAT
FOLLOWED WERE DOMINATED BY
SUNNIS.
THE POWERFUL UMAYYAD DYNASTY,
BASED IN DAMASCUS, FOR CENTURIES
RULED AN EMPIRE EXTEND EASTWARD,
NORTH INTO THE CAUCASUS, ACROSS
NORTH AFRICA AND UP THE IBERIAN
PENINSULA.
A LATER CALIPHATE, THE ABBASID,
RULED FROM BAGHDAD, BUT WAS
OVERRUN IN THE 13TH CENTURY BY
THE MONGOLS.
IN THE 15TH CENTURY, THE OTTOMAN
TURKS BECAME THE PRE-EMINENT
ISLAMIC POWER.
BUT THE LAST OTTOMAN CALIPH, BY
THATIMEWER IN NAME ONLY,
WAS DEPOSED IN 1924 BY THE
OUNDERS  THEOFODERN TURKISH
STATE.
OSAMA BIN LADEN OFTEN REFERENCED
THAT EVENT, WHEN SPEAKING OF
DECADES OF MUSLIM HUMILIATION.
AS HERE, IN HIS FIRST STATEMENT
AFR 9/TE.
>> ( translated ): OUR NATION,
FOR MORE THAN 80 YEARS.
HAS BEEN TASTING THIS
HUMILIAON
ITS SONS ARE KILLED, ITS BLOOD
IS SHED, ITS SANCTUARIES ARE
ATTACKED, AND NO ONE HEARS.
>> Warner: BIN LADEN AND HIS
FOLLOWERS DENOUNCED THE MIDDLE
EAST MAP CREATED DURING WORLD
WAR ONE, WHEN THE FRENCH AND
BRITISH SYKES-PICOT AGREEMENT
CARVED OUT ZONES OF INFLUENCE
INTO THE MODERN-DAY SYRIA,
LEBANON, JORDAN, IRAQ AND
E.IN
THE NEWLY DECLARED "ISLAMIC
STATE" IS INTENT ON  SMASHING
ALL THAT.
THS ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROPAGANDA
VIDEO SHOWS ITS MILITANTS
DISSOLVING THE BORDER BETWEEN
RIA ANDRAQ,ITH MMENRY
FROM A CHILEAN-BORN FIGHTER.
>> WE DON'T RECOGNIZE IT D WE
WILL VER NECOGNIZE IT.
THERE  NISNATIO ONALITY, WE ARE
USLIMS.
AL QAIDA'S LEADERSHIP DISAVOWED
THE ISLAMIC STATE EARLIER THIS
YEAR IN A DISPUTE BETWEEN
BAGHDADI AND BIN LADEN'S
SUCCESSOR, AYMAN AL-ZAWAHIRI.
I.S.I.L. HAD BEEN THE LATEST
INCARNATION OF AL QAIDA'S
FRANCHISE THAT TOOK ROOT IN IRAQ
AFTER THE U. INVASION OF 2003.
NOW, IT IS AIMING TO ECLIPSE AL
QAIDA IN REACH, ASSETS, MANPOWER
AND LETHALITY.
>> Woodruff: AND MARGARET JOINS
ME NOW.
THIS GOVERNMENT IN IRAQ ALREADY
HAVING ENOUGH PROBLEMS.
WHAT IS THIS ANNOUNCEMENT OF A
CALIPHATE MEAN IN ADDITION TO
THAT?
WRG WE'VE ALWAYS KNOWN THIS
GROUP WHICH CALLED ITSELF I
NOW ISIL IS AMILIRY LEFT.
WELL-TRAINED SUPPOSEDLY,
U.S.-TRAINED IRAQI ARMY JUST
FELBACK AND MELTED AWAY.
WHAT WE SAW TODAY IN THAT
PARLIAMENT WAS THAT IT'S ALSO
POLITICAL THREAT, BECAUSE WHILE
IT HAS A COHESIVE MESS NICHE
UNITY, WHAT YOU SEE IN BAGHDAD
IS THAT AFTER REALLY TEN YEARS
OF SOME KIND OF GOVERNING, THEY
HAVE YET TO CREATE AN
INCLUSIVE , COOPERATIVE, KIND OF
NATIONAL IDENTTY II WHICH ALL
IRAQIS FEEL A PART.
AND SO WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT A
UNIFIED IRAQ, ESSENTIALLY, IT'S
ALREADY HAPPENING DE FACTO SLOW
MOTION WHAT TIS ISSEL OR --
ISIL IS CALL FOR WHH IS U
GOT KURDISH BREAKING AWAY IN THE
NORTH, KURDISTAN, A RADICAL
ERSION OF SUNNI STAND IN THE
CENTRAL PORTIONS AND IN THE
SOUTH, HEAVILY SHIA.
AND IT CROSSES INTO SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE TERM
CALIPHATE?
YOU POUNDED OUT THIS IS WHAT,
OVER 1500 YEARS OLD.
WHY ARE THESE ISIL EXTREME EMS
USING THAT TERM, THAT IDEA?
>> Warner: THAT'S GREAT QUESTION
BECAUSE IT IS AN OLD-FASHIONED
TERM.
WHAT IT IMPLIES, IT HAS GREAT
RESONANCE FOR MUSLIMS WORLDWIDE.
MUIMS SLFEEL THEY WERE AND THEY
ARE A GREAT CIVILIZATION WHICH
WE DESCRIBED IN THE PIECE FOR
HUNDREDS OF YEARS, ALL THE WAY
FAR NORTH IF YOU GO TO CHURCHES
IN BUDAPEST YOU'LL SEE TILES
OTTOMAN TILES.
SO ALL OF SORT OFBE
CRUSHED AND CARVED UP IN THE
SECRET AGREEMENT 98 YEARS AGO BY
THE FRENCRITI.
THERE'S -- AND THAT EXPLAINS WHY
THEY'RE HAVING TO OPERATE IN
ARTIFICIAL BORDERS TO THEM, 80
ARAB WORLD AND THE MUSLIM WORLD
HAS FALLEN SO BEHIND IN
DEVELOPMENT.
THAT'S A DEBATABLE POINT BUT
THAIS SORT OF THEYTHOGY.
AND WHEN YOU USE THE TERM
"CALIPHATE" IF YOU THINK ABOUT
THE MUSLIMS, REMEMBER THE TERM
CHRISTENDOM USED TO MEAN
SOMETHING.
THE IDEA OF THE UMBA, THE IDEA
THERE'S A LARGE MUSLIM, GREATER
SENSE OF COMMUNITY.
IT TAPS INTO THAT.
AND THAT VILCIIZATION COULD BE
BROUGHT SO LOW, FOLKS SHARE
ACCUMULATION.
SO WHEN YOU SAY WE ESTABLISH IN
THE CALIPHATE, THAT'S GREATNESS.
JUST HAS A LOT OF EMOTIONAL
STORICAL AND RELIGIOUS PUNCH.
>> Woodruff: AND AS YOU'VE BEEN
REPORTING, MARGARET, IT'S NOT
JUST IRAQ THAT IS THREATENED BY
TS.
IT'S THE TENEGIO
HOW -- WHAT -- WHO ARE THE OTHER
PLAYERS WHO ARE AFFECTED?
>> Warner:UDY, MOSETHT OF
FOCUS HAS BEEN THIS IS
AL-QAEDA AND IT CERTAINLY IS,
BECAUSE al-QAEDA, ALWAYS
TALKED ABOUT THIS, AND IT
ACTUALLY ATTACKING WESTERNERS
AND MUSLMS,ITHEYE NEVER
ACTUALLY TAKEN ANY TERRITORY.
AND ALREADY,GROUP ISIL HAS
DONE THAT SO THAT'S THE FIRST
THING.
BUT ISIS A GREATER THREAT TO
ACTUAL THELY RULERS OF MUSLIM
MAJORITY COUNTRIES ALL OVHE T
REGION.
MOST OF WHOM ARE RULING OVER
STATES WITH THESE ARTIFICIAL
BORDERS.
EGYPT'S DIFFERENT.
EGYPT, YES, MAY BE SECULAR, MAY
BE EGYPTIAN.
BUT JORDAN, LEBANON, SYRIA,
SAUDI ARABIA.
SOME OF THE U.S. ALLIESSH YOU IS
THIS MESSAGE MIX OF SECTARIAN
GROUPS.
THERE'S STILL -- WHO'S GOING TO
RULE, BUT IT'S STILL FOLLOWING
THE OLD EUROPEAN PLAYBOOK.
AND WHAT AL-BAGHDADI WAS SAYING
TODAY IS HE WAS DISMISSING ALL
THAT.
ALL EARTH IS OURS.
AND SO WHAT HE'S SAYING
ESSENTIALLY IS THE CONCEPTS OF
THOSE STATES ARE LEGITIMATE AND
IT'S A SUBVERSIVE THOUGHT.
IT'S NOT THAT THEY'RE GOING TO
TAKE OVER LEBANONTOORRO BUTIT'SF
THOSE STATES ARE ILLEGIMATE
MAYBEIRTHRULERS AR TOO.
>> Woodruff: MARET WARNER,
THERE'S NO SHORTAGE OF SOMETHING
FOR TO YOU REPO ON NOW.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IN HONG KONG TODAY,
A MAJOR ANNIVERSARY WAS MARKED
WITH POMP, WHILE A SEA OF
DEMONSTRATORS TOOK TO THE
STEETS CALLING FOR MORE RIGHTS.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JOHNSPARKN
NEWS.
>> Reporter: IT'S SOMETHING OF A
TRADITION, AN ANNUAL CEREMONY TO
MARK THE HAND-OVER OF HONG KONG
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA.
SOLDIERS SALUTE, CHILDREN SING,
FLAGS ARE WAVED.
A CELEBRATION SAID CHINESE STATE
MEDIA, OF THE TERRITORY'S RETURN
TO THE MOTHERLAND.
HERE'S ANOTHER TRADITION, LARGE-
SCALE PRDEMOO-ACY DEMOCRACIES.
AND THIS AFTERNOON, HONG KONG
S BIGGEST SINGLE
PROTEST IN MORE THAN A DECADE.
MORE THAN A HUNDRED THOUSAND
SPILLING INTO THE STREETS
DEMANDING GREATER AUTONOMY FROM
BEIJING AND A CHANCE TO CHOO
WHO GOVER THEM.>> IT'S OBVIOUS T
STAND THE PEOPLE OF HONG KO
BUT WE ARE NOT GOING TO BE
OBEDIENT ANYMORE, WE ARE GOING
TO RESIST.
>> Reporter: DISCONTENT WAS
ELLED BY A CHINESE GOVERNMENT
WHITE PAPER WHICH SEEMED TO
LIMIT THE CITY'S AUTONOMY.
ENRAGED, ACTIVISTS ARE NOW
THREATENING A CAMPAIGN OF CIVIL
DISOBEDIENCE.
OF COURSE, THAT'S MADE BEIJING'S
UNHAPPY, IT SAYS THE PROTESTS
ARE ILLEGAL, THE WORK OF "JUST A
FEW PEOPLE."
THE CITY GOVERNMENT UPSET TOO.
THE LEADER CY LEUNG, WHO WAS
SELECTED BY A BEIJING-BACKED
COMMITTEE,AYS THE PROTESTS
THREATEN HONG KONG'S STABILITY
AND PROSPERITY.
HE HAS REASON TO BE WORRIED
LAST WEEKEND NEARLY 800,000
RESIDENTS PARTICIPATED IN AN
INFORMAL VOTE, A REFERENDUM ON
HOW TO MAKE THE SELECTIOENEXT CE
DEMOCRATIC.
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT LLED
THE WHOLE THING, WELL, ILLEGAL
STILL, THE ORGANIZERS WEREN'T
LISTENING.
>> WE HAVE VY STNGRO
DETERMINATION TO HAVE TRUE
DEMOCRACY.
>TODA THEOPENED UE
GATES AT THE HONG KONG BARRACKS
OF THE PEOPLE'S LIBERATION ARMY,
IT WAS A FRIENDLY AFFR, BUT IF
THE PROTESTS CONTINUE FEW WOULD
RULOUT E SHOWF FORCE FR
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT.
>> Woodruff: JEFFREY BROWN HAS
MORE ON THIS SRY.
AT WHAT'S GOING ON IS TO LOOK
EVAN OSNOS, A STAFF WRITER AT
THE NEW YORKER.
HE SERVED AS ITS CHINA
CORRESPONDENT FROM 2008 TO 2013
AND IS AUTHOR OF "AGE OF
AMBITION: CHASING FORTUNE,
TRUTH, AND FAITH IN THE NEW
CHINA"
>> THANKS.
Brown: FIT, IRSHINKIT
WOLD  USUL  REMIND PEOPLE
FOR CONTEXT HE.
WHAT IS THE LEGAL STATUS OF HONG
KONGIS-AA-VIS CHINA NOW.
>> HONG KONG IS A VERY UNUSUAL
PLACE IT.
IS PART OF CHINA BUT ALSO A
PLACE UNTO ITSELF.
IT'S CALLED A SPECIAL
MINIADRATIVE REGION WHICH
MEANS THAT IT RELIES ON THE
BEIJING GOVERNMENT FOR NATIONAL
SECURITY, NATIONAL DEFENSE, BUT
IT ULTIMATELY GOVERNS I OWN
POLIIRS,FA IT HAS A
POLITIAL SYSTEM THAT VERY
UNLIKE THE POLITICAL SYSTEM IN
CHINA.
>> Brown: AS WE HEARD ONE OF THE
TRIGGERS TO TH DEMONSTRATION
WAS THIS WHITE PAPER BY THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT.
ASSERTING MORE CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT COROL FROM BEIJING.
WHERE'S THAT COMING FROM?
I MEAN THE SENTIMENT AND WHY
NOW?
>> YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER 17 YEARS
AGO THIS SUMMER, CHINA REGAINED
CONTROL OVER HONG KONG AFTER A
SEN ENTRY A HALF OF A BRITISH
COLONY.
AND IN THAT TRANSITION THAT
HANDOVER BACKTO CHINESE
CONTROL, WHAT THEY SAID WAS THAT
HONG KONG WOULDAIN MIN A HIGH
DEGREE OF AUTONOMY FOR THE NEXT
50 YEARS.
BUT THEY NEVER ACTUALLY WORKED
OUT WHAT THE DETAILSOULD BE ON
THE GROUND.
>> Brown: NEVER SPELLED IT OUT.
THEY NEVER SPELLED IT OUT.
SO NOW AS WE'RE APPROACHING 20
YEARS ON, THEY HAVE TO FIGURE
OUT, FOR INSTANCE, HOW ARE WE
GOING TO SELECT THE HIGHEST
RANKING OFFICE IN THE LAND, THE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE?
AND ONE OF THE THINGS 'S
BECOME AN ISSUE IS, CAN ANYBODY
RUN FOR THAT OFFICE OR DO THEY
HAVE TO BE VETTED BY THE BEIJING
GOVERNMENT?
THESE DEMONSTRATIONS THAT WE'VE
SEEN ARE REALLY A REQUEST BY THE
PUBLIC TO SAY, WE WANT TO HAVE
PUBLIC NOMINATION.
Brn: AND HOWHIS
PUSH FROM CHINA REFLECT INTNALER
CHINESE POLITICS AS INOW
MUCH -- HOW POWERFUL WILL TH
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ME?
>> THAT'S A BIG PART OF THIS.
THE NEW CHINESE LEADERWHEN HE
TOOKOWER PT TH OF 2012
MADE IT CLEAR AND HAS SINCE MADE
ITLEAR SINCE THEN THAT HE WAS
LESS COMRTABLE WITH POLITICAL
ENNESS AND THE KIND OF WESTERN
DEMOCRATIC FREEDOMS THAT HONG
KONG HAS THAN HIS PREDERS IS
WERE.
AND SO HE HAS OVER THE COURSE OF
THE LAST 18 MONTHS SENT A SERIES
OF SIGNALS THAT SAYS THAT
ULTIMATELY, HONG KONG'S AUTONOMY
IS SUBJECT TO CONTROL FROM
BEIJING AND WHEN THEY SAID THAT
FORLLY IN THIS WHITE PAPER
REE THWEEKS AGO, THAT ENRAGED
PEOPLE IN HONG KONG AND THEY
WENNOT STREETS.
>> Brown: S INOHONG KONG
ITSELF, HOW STRONG IS THIS PUSH
FOR DEMOCRATIZATIONOR SOME KIND
OF SEPARATION FROM CHINA AND
WHO'S BEHIND IT?
>> WELL, SO FAR, IT'S BEEN
REMARKABLE HOW STRONG THE PUBLIC
REACTION HAS BEEN.
I MEAN, TODAY THE ESTIMATES BY
THE POLICE WERE THAT THERE WERE
ABOUT 90,000 PEOPLE IN THE
STREETS.
THE ESTIMATES BY THE ORGANIZERS
WERE THAT IT WAS HALF A MILLION.
THE POINT BEING THAT EITHER
NUMBER IS THE LARGEST
DEMONSTRATION WE'VE SEEN IN A
DECADE SO THERE IS CLEARLY ADISE
CHINESE -- AMONG THE HONG KONG
PUBLIC.
THERE WAS AN UNOFFICIAL
REFERENDUM LAST MONTHIN WHICH
800,000 PEOPLE VOTED, IN EFFECT,
TO TAKE CROT GRATER CONTROL OVER
E PCESSF ELTING THEIR
NEXT LEADER.
SO WHAT THEY'RE DOING WITHIN
BEIJING IS THE PEOPLE OF HONG
KONG ARE AFRAID THAT THE QUALITY
OF LIFE, THE WAY OF LIFE WHICH
THEY HAVE WHICH IS SO
DISTINCTIVE AND IS THIS BOTH
CHINESE BUT ALSO WESTERN
COMPOSITE, THIS HYBRID, THAT
THAT'S IN DOUBT.
AND SONK IT'S GOING TO BE
DIFFICULT AS THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT HAS TO FIGURE OUT HOW
DO WE REASSURE PEOPLE IN HONG
KONG THAT THERE IS A FUTURE FOR
THEM IN CHINA WHILE AT THE SAME
TIME NOT ENCOURAGING THEM TO
STAKE OUT GREATER --
>> Brown: YOU HAVE SEEN A
REACTION YET FROM BEIJING TO
THIS DEMONSTRATION I MEAN?
>> WELL, BEIJING HAS SAID IN
ADVANCE OF THE DEMOCRAT
STRAGS -- DEMONSTRATION THAT
THEY CONSIDER ANY DEMONSTRATION
ILLEGITIMATE.
THEY CALLED THIS REFER LENDUM A
FARCE.
HE REAL PRESSURE RIGHT NOW
IS ON THE LEADERSHIP IN HONG
KONG, TH CHF EXECUTIVE THERE
CY LEUNG.
HE HAS TO RESPOND TO HIS PUBC
AND RECOGNIZE THAT HE TAKES THIS
SERIOUSLY.
WH YOU HAVE HALF A MILLION
PEOE IN THE STREETS AND AT THE
SAME TIME NOT ALIENATE THE
GOVERNMENT IN BEIJING.
HE'S CONSIDERED TO BE GENERALLY
FAVORABLE TO THE GOVERNMENT IN
BEIJING AS HAS HIS PREDECESSORS
OVER THE COURSE OF THE LAST
CENTURY.
>> Brown: IS THERE THE
POSSIBILITY OF INTERVENTION BY
HINE C
IT'S NEVER REALLY BEEN DISCUSSED
AS FAR AS I KNOW.
T'S SORT OF BEEN OFF THE TABLE,
UTB I SEE NOW WITH THESE
DEMONSTRATIONS GROWING AND THAT
VOTE SUDDENLY PEOPLE ARE TALKING
ABOUT IT.
>> I THINK NOBODY WANTS TO SEE
THAT, AND EVEN THE GOVERNMENT IN
BEIJING RECOGNIZES THAT FOR THEM
TO PUT SECURITY FORCES INTO THE
STREETS OF HONG KONG WOULD
REPRESENT A RADICAL ESCALATION
OF THE CONFRONTATION, AND I
THINK IT'S ONE THAT WOULD HAVE
KNOCK-ON EFFECTS THAT THEY WOULD
SEEK TO AVOID.
WHAT THEY'RE TRYING TO DO AT THE
MOMENT IS PERSUADE THE PUBLIC OF
HONG KONG THAT IT IS MORE
DISRUPTIVE TO THEIR ECONOMIC AND
POLITICAL LIFE TO HAVE THESE
DEMONSTRATIONS THAN IT WOULD BE
TO JUST ALLOW THINGS TO GO ON.
>Br LETn: ME owK YAS
FINA CURIOUS, IN YOUR
REPORTING OVER THERE AND FOR
CITIZENS IN
MAINLD INA OKAT H KONG
AS ADEL ORS A
SOMETHING SO DIFFERENT?
IT'S OVER THERE, IT'S NOTHING
LIKE WHAT WE EXPERIENCE OP THE
MAINLAND?
>> A LITTLE BIT BOTH.
IF YOU GO BACK TO THE 1980s,
THE TRUTH WAS CHINA
LEN FARROM HONG KONG, THINGS
LIKE LOCAL VILLAGE ELECTIONS.
THEY REALLY DID BORROW THAT FROM
WHAT HONG KONG HAD DONE.
ON THE OTHER HAND HONG KONG IS A
CITY OF 7 MILLION PEOPLE.
PEOPLE IN CHINA WILL TELL YOU
WE'RE A COUNTRY O1.3 BILLION
AND WE HAVE TO DO THINGS MORE
SLOWLY THAN THEY HAVE IN HONG
KONG.
>> Brown: EVAN OSNOS IS THE
AU OF "AGE OFMBITION."
THANK YOU.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: A CHANGING ASIA HAS
ALSO COMPLICATED THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CHINA AND
VIETNAM.
THEY'VE RECENTLY BATTLED OVER
DRILLING FOR OIL IN WATERS
CLAIMED BY BOTH COUNTRIES, AND
SHARE A LONG LAND BORDER THAT
HAS BEEN THE SCENE OF HUMAN
TRAFFICKING.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT FRED DE
SAM LAZARO HAS OUR REPORT.
A VERSION OF THIS STORY AIRED ON
THE PBS PROGRAM RELIGION AND
ETHICS NEWS WELY AND IS PART
OF HIS AGENTS FOR CHANGE SERIES.
MOBILITY WITHIN THE COTRY,UN
URBAN MIGRATION HAPPENING AT A
LARGE SCALE.
Reporter: HOWEVER FLORIAN
FLOISTER FELT THE STRONG
ECONOMIC GROWTH OF RECENT YEARS
HAS NOT BEEN ENOUGH TO ABSORB
MILLIONS OF YOUNG ENTRANTS TO
THE JORKET IN THIS NATION OF
90 MILLION.
>> WE HAVE ABOUT 400,000ING
MIRANT WORKERS BEING DEPLOYED
ABROAD AT ANY TIME WITH 80,000
LEAVING EVERY YEAR.
WHEVEYR  HAOUVE MIGRATION,
WHICH IS A POSITIVE DRIVER AND A
POSITIVE FORCE, THEN YOU HAVE
ALSO THE EXPLOITATION AND ABUSE
COME WITH IT.
AND THAT LEADS TO TRAFFICKING.
>> Reporter: THE HEART OF BOTH
THE SEX AND LABOR TRAFFICKING
PROBLEM AND MUCH VIETNAM'
POVERTY LIES IN THE RURAL
STILL HOME TO
TWO-THIRDS OF THE POLATION.
THIS IS VIETNAM'S BACK DOOR, THE
RUGGED MOUNTAINOUS REGION ALONG
THE BORDER WITH CHINA.
IT'S A POROUS BORDER FROM WHICH
THOUSANDS OF VIETNAMESE MEN,
WOMEN AND CHILDREN ARE
TRAFFICKED EACH YEAR.
NBERS ARE HARD TO PIN DOWN.
THAT'S JUST ONE OF T
CHALLENGES OF GETTING A HANDLE
ON THIS COMPLEX PROBLEM.
CHINA IS A GIANT MAGNET NEXT
DOOR.
ITS WAGES ARE HIGHER AND IT'S A
TRANSIT POINT TO OTHER
COUNTRIES.
BUT MANY WOMEN ARE TAKEN TO
CHINA INVOLUNTARILY.
SOME ARE FORCED INT MARRGE
CHINA HAS  ASHGETA OF BRIDES
BECAUSE OF ITS ONE-CHILD POLICY
AND ITS CULTALUR PREFERENCE FOR
LE CHILDREN.
OTHER VIETNAMESE WOMEN ARE
FORCED INTO PROSTITUTION.
CALIFORNIA-BASED YEEP WONGORIGID
THE PACIFIC LINKS FOUNDATI
WHICH HELPSVICTIMS WHO HAVE
MANAGED TO ESCAPE.
>> E GIRLS THAT WE SEE, THEY
ARE GIVE AN CHOICE.
DO YOU WANT TOARR M?
OR DO YOU WANT TO WK OR THE
BROTHELS?
AND ONE OF THE U
THAT THEY SAID, YOU KNOW, THEY
TOLD US THAT IF WE WO IN
BROTHELS, WE'LL BE STAYING NEAR
THE BORDER.
AND SO SOME GIRLS SAY, YOU KNOW,
I RATHER STAY HERE BECAUSE IT'S
CLOSER TO VIEAM, D I MAY BE
ABLE TO RUN BACK.
>> Reporter: VUONG BROUGHT ME TO
VISIT 23-YEAR-OLD WOMAN WHO WAS
ABLE TO RUN BACK.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHERE I WAS
TAKEN.
WE WERE IN THE CAR FOR A DAY.
AND WHEN T'T LDN
OUT OF THE CAR, THEN I REALIZED
I'D BEEN TRICKED.
>> Reporter: HERS IS A CLASSIC
STORY OF HOW TRAFFICKERS PREY ON
DESPERATELY POOR PEOPLE.
VUONG WAS WORKING ON A ROAD
BUILDING CW,RECK-BAREAKING
WORK IN HOT, STIFLING WEATHER
AND STILL THE WORK SITEI THE
CRUITER CAME WITH A BETTER
OFFER, THE HARVEST CINNAMON FOR
BETTER WAGES.
SHE AND TWO OTHERS TOOK THE BAIT
BUT SHE WAS THE ONLY ONE WHO
MANAGED TO RETURN TO HER
VILLAGE.
THE OTHER TWO HAVE NOT BEEN
HEARD FROM SINCE.
SHE SAID SHE WAS HELD IN A HOME
ACROSS THE BORDER IN CHINA
BEFORE BEING TAKEN TO A PLACE
SHE THOUGHT WAS BEIJING WHERE
SHE ENCOUNTERED THE POLICE.
>> WHEN WE GOT TO BEIJING, THER.
SO I RAN TO THEM AND ASKED THEM
TO HELP ME.
THEY SHOWED ME AOMPUTER SCREEN
WITH A LOT OF FLAGS ON IT.
AND I WAS ABLE TO SHOW THEM THAT
I WAS FROM VIETNAM.
>> Reporter: BUT AFTER
CLARIFYING A FEW QUEIONS, SHE
DETERMINED LON WASN'T DESCRIBING
BEIJING BUT RATHER THAN AIRPORT.
SHE'D NEVER SEEN ONE BEFORE.
>> YOU KNOW, TO SEE AIRPORT
PICTURES ALL THE TIME IN
MAYSIALA AIRLINES, ALL THAT,
AND THEN YOU COME ACROSS PEOPLE
WHO ACTUALLY AT THE AIRPORT AND
DON'T EVEN KNOW THAT THEY'VE
BEEN AT THE AIRPORT.
>> Reporter: LONG WAS FORTUNATE
IN NE CRITICAL WAY.
HER FAMILY WELCOMED HER BACK.
SHE SINCE MARRIED AND HAS A
1-YEAR-OLD SON.
ANDEJEION FROMMUST DEAL WITH
THEIR FAMILIES.
>> MMOTHER DOESN'T CARE TO SEE
ME ANYMORE.
IN MY VILLAGE, THERE WERE SOME
YOUNG WOMEN WHO HAD RETURNED
OM CHINA AND I REMEMBER
LOOKING DOWN ON THEM, AND I
THOUGHT THAT'S HOW PEOPLEE
LOOKING AT ME.
>> Reporter: WE WERE ASKED TO
CONCEAL THE IDENTITIES OF
TRAFCKIN VICTIMS.
THEY WERE VULNERABLE TO PEER
PRESSURE AND SEEMINGLY
COMPELLING REQUESTS FOR HELP.
>> THERE WAS THIS BOY.
HE LIVED BELOW US, AND HE TOLD D
ACNTEIN CNA, D  ASK
ME IF I WANTED TO GO WITH HIM TO
TAKE CARE OF HIS OTH.
>> MY COUSIN TO LDME HE WAS
DUMPED BY HIS GIRLFRIEND AND
REALLY DEPRESSED AND ASKED IF I
WOULD GO AND HANG OUT WITH HIM.
>> Reporter: BUT THEIR FRIENDS
LIED TO THEM.
EACH TEENAGER WAS HANDED OVER TO
MEMBERS OF SHADOWY TRAFFICKING
NETWORKS.
>> WE WERE TOLD THAT IF WE
DIDN'T AGREE TO BE WIVES, WE
WOULD BE SOLD INTO BROTHELS.
>> Reporter: SHE AGREED.
THE OTHER WOMAN DID NOT.
AND SHE WAS SOLD TO A
WHERE SHE SAID SHE WAS HELD FOR
AL DER BUTOT YPUT TO
WORK.
>> WE WERE WAITING TO FIND A
CLIENT FOR ME.
CKILY, THERE WAS A POLICE
RAID, AND BECAUSE WE DIDN'TAVE
HARWINGESCE STORIES, HOWUS AWAY.
CHANCE ENCOUNTERS WITH POLICE
OFFIALS AND KIND
HELPED THEM GET HO.
IN MANY CASES, WONG SAYS VICTIMS
BECOME TRAFFICKERS.
>> THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC
SECURITY HAS SAID THAT THEY --
OF ALL T PEOP THEY ARRESTED
AS TRAFFICKER, 60% O TFEMADBEENS
THEMSELVES.
>> Reporter: SHE DESCRIBED ONE
OWN COUNTER SHED HADIT A
17-YEAR-OLD WHO HAD BEATEN IN
CAPTIVITY AND HE LEASE IFDHE
AGREED TO RECRUIT MORE WOMEN
WHICH SHE AGREED TO DO.
>> SHEID DT N'SAY THAT THEY
PROSTITUTES.O SEE
>> Reporter: SO WHY WOULD SHE
FEEL COMPLED TO FEED IS
TRADE THEN IF SHE WAS --
>> I THINK -- OH, WELL, I THINK
THAT -- I DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN, DO YOU ASK AN ABUSED
WOMAN WHO'S ABUSED BY HER
HUSBAND WHY SHE GOES BACK TO HER
HUSBAND OR WHY DOES SHE LET HER
HUSBAND BEAT UP ON THE CHILDREN
KNOWING THAT -- WHAT THE HARM
SHE SUFFER IS TER
>> Reporter: FOR YOUNG WOMEN
UNABLE TO RETURN TO THEIR
FAMILIES, SEVERAL DOZEN EACH
YEAR, SHEVIDES SAFE HAVEN.
THEY LEARN SKILLS LIKE COOKING
AND CAN CPLETE THEIR
SCHOONG.
ABOUT 4,000 HAVE RECEIVED
SCHOLARSHIPS WITH MONEY FROM
PRIVATE DONATIONS.
THAT ENABLES THEM TO GO TO
L AND WHERE POSSIBLE TRAIN
FOR JOB SKILLS.
HERE IS ANOTHER
NONPROFIT CALLED NO ONE TEACH
ONE OR KOTO.
ITS RESTAURANTS AND CULINARY
SCHOOLS IN HO CHI MINH CITYD
HANOI CLAIMED DISADVANTAGED
YOUT
VIETNAM IS FINALLY TANG THE
FIRST STEPS TO DEAL WITH
PROBLEMS LIKE TRAFFICKING, THIS
MAN SAYS.
>> 5 YEARS AGO, THIS PROBLEM
WASN'T AT ALL.
NOW YOU SEE THIS THROUGH THE
WORK OF KOTO WHERE YOU SEE A LOT
OF VISIBILIY, I GUE
FART.
IT'S NOT WHERE -- IT'S A START.
IT'S NOT SOMEWHERE WHE WE
WOULD KELI IT TO BE.
>> Reporter: THE GOVERNMENT
PASSED TRAFFICKING L
RECENT YEARS.
IN 2013, VIETNAM ARRESTED NEARLY
700 ALLEGED TRAFFICKE AND
IDENTIFIED SOME 900 RESCUED
VICTIMS.
HOWEVER, MOST EXP
THERE ARE DEFICIENCIES INH
THE LAWS AND THEIR ENFORCEMENT
AND TAT THSE NUMBERS REPRESENT .
SHE SAYS A TENT PERHAPS OF THE
TRUE FIGURES.
>> Wdruff: FRED'S REPORTING IS
A PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-
RY'SNIVEITY OF MINNESOTA.
>> Woodff: LET'TURN NOW TO A
IAL MEDIA STORY THAT'S BEEN
GENERAT
VER THE PAST
FEDAYS: IT'S IN RESPONSE TO A
STUDY FACEBOOK CONDUCTED WITH
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF ITS
USERS.
THE STUDY IN QUESTION GOES BACK
TO WHEN FACEBOOK MANIPULATED THE
INCOMING CONTENT OF PAGES
BELONGING TO ALMOST 700,000 OF
ITS USERS, FOR A WEEK, WITHOUT
IT W DESIGNED TO SEE HOW
PEOPLE'S ATTITUDES WERE AFFECTED
WHEN THEY READ EITHER A STREAM
OF MORE POSITIVE POSTS, OR MORE
NEGATIVE ONE IN THEIR SO-
CALLED  "NEWS FEEDS."
THE RESULTS WERE PUBLISHED IN A
RESPECTED SCIENTIFIC JOURNAL IN
JUNE.
AS THAT INFORMATION HAS COME TO
S ALSO PROY ARE UPSET AT WHATF
ABOUT THE ETHICSF T O
RESEARCH, THE JONAL URERE IT
WAS BLISD MUCH MORE.
TO FILL IN THE DETAILS, WE'RE
JOINED BY RE ALBERGOTTI OF THE
WALL STREET JOURNAL.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
REED, FIRST OF ALL, WHERE DID
HE ITUDY COME
FROM?
WHAT DID FACEBOOK HOPET WAS
GOING TO ACCOMPLISH BY DOING
THIS?
>> WELL, AROUND THE TIME OF THIS
STUDY, THERE WAS SORT OF A MEAN
GOING AROUND THE INTERNET THAT
WHEN YOU GO ON FACEBOOK AND YOU
SEE ALL THESE WONDERFUL THINGS
AT YOUR FRIENDS AND FAMILY ARE
POSTING ABOUT THEIR LIVE
START TO FEEL A LITTLE BAD ABOUT
YOUR OWN LIVES.
D THERE WAS SOME RESEARCH,
SIC REM
TIME THAT REALLY KIND OF BACKED
UP THAT THEORY.
AND FEBOOAC WANTED TO FIND OUT
WHETHER OR NOT THATAS WTRU E.ANN
THIS RESEARCH PROJECT.
EORY, AND THEY WEREN'TEBUNKED
SHY ABOUT IT.
THEY WORKED WITH CORNELL
ISH BLPUHET STUDY AND TELL THE
PUBLIWHAT THEY' FOD.
>> odruff: DID AISE ANY
S -- INTERNALLY?
IS IT KNOWN AUT THE PROPRIETY
OR THE ETHICS OF DOING THIS?
>> NO.
AND IN FACT, CORNELL ISSUED A
STATEMENT SAYING THEY LOOKED AT
IT AND THEY DECIDED THEY WERE
NOT SUBJECT TO FEDERAL
GUIDELINES, LAWS ACTUALLY, THAT
REQUIRE INFORMED CONSENT OF
HUMAN RESEARCH SUBJECTS BECAUSE
THE STUDY WAS DONE BY FACEBOOK
WITHOUT THE INVOLVEMENT OF THE
CORNELL RESEARCHERS AT THE TIME.
SO CORNELL IS SORT OF WASHING
THEIR HANDS OFTHE  ETHICAL
IMPLICATIONS HERE.
>> Woodruff: BUT WHAT ABOUT
FACEBOOK?
DO  THIFDISCUSSION ABOUT WHETHEY
SHOULD HAVEET L PEOPLE KNOW
>> WELL, FACEBOOK SAYS THAT IT
HAS AN INTERNAL REVIEW PROCESS,
BUT IT SAID AT THE TIME, IT
WASN'T AS RIGOROUS AS IT IS NOW,
AND IT'S ONE THING THAT WE'VE TL
US MORE ABOUTIS, YO KOW,
DITHISD  INTERNAL REVIEW PROCESS
EVOLVE?AN
WHADT AR RE
PROCEDURES IN PLACE NOW?
>>oodruff: SO, REED
ALBERGOTTI, WHAT-- I
MEAN, FIRST OF ALL, ARE THERE
ANY LEGAL CONSIRATIDES TO THIS
THAT MAYBE THEY VIOLATED A LAW
BY DOING THIS?
>> WELL, I THINK RIGHT NOW, IT'S
REALLY MORE OF A QUESTION OF
ETHICS.
THE LAWS REALLY APPLY TO
GOVERNMENT -- INS STUCKS THAT
RECEVE FEDERAL -- INSTITUTIONS
THAT RECEIVE FEREDAL FUNDING
KE C, AND NOT
REALLY TO PRIVATE COMPANIES.
INACT, FACEBOOKISN'T THE ONLY
SOCIAL MEDIA COMPANY OR TECH
COMPANY THAT'S GATHERING REAMS
OF PERSONAL DATA AND USING IT IN
THESE SCIENTIFIC EXPERIMENTS.
BU FACEBOOK IS ONE THAT
PULISHES IS PUBLICLY MORE THAN
OTHERCOMNIES
>> Woodruff: SO IF -- SET ASIDE
ANY LEGAL QUESTION, WHAT ABOUT
THE ETHICS OF IT?
WHAT ARE Y -- WHAT ARE OTHERS
SAYING ABOUT WHAT ETHICAL LINES
MIGHT HAVE BEENROSSED HERE?
>> I'VE TALKED TO A LOT OF
ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS HE ABOUT
THIS STUDY, AND I THINK REALLY
THERE'S A CONSENSUS SORT OF
BEING FORMED THAT EREEEDS
BE A STRONG, HARD LOOK AT THE
IT'S A GROWING TRENDREIN
THE SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY,
PRIVATE COMPANIES, CORPORATIONS
USING THEIR DATA IN CONJUNCTION
WITH RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS FOR
SCIENTIFIC STUDIES, AND RIGHT
NOW IT'S REALLY AN ETHICAL G
AREA.
AND I THIN RESEARCHERS WOULD
E INGIKE L
ANOTHER LEVEL OF INFORMED
CONSENT THAT FACEBOOK WOULD PUT
IN FRONT OF ITS WHEN THEY
ENTER THEM INTO THESE TYPES OF
STUDIES.
BUT RIGHT NOW IT'S SO EARLY, I
THINK WE'LL HAVE TO LOOK AT HOW
THIS BACKLASH SHAKES OUT TO SEE
IF THAT ACTUALLY HAPPENS.
>> Woodruff: AND JUST TO
CLARIFY, GIVE US AN EXAMPLEOF
HOW THE NEW -- SO-CALLED NEWS
FEED WAS MANIPULATED.
AS YOU SAID EARLIER, THERE WERE
IN SOME CASES MAKING SURE THEY
WERE SEEING MORE POSITIVE
INFORMATION.
IN OTHERASES MORE NEGATIVE.
WHAT'S AN EXAMPLE OF HOW THAT
WORKED?
>> WELL, THERE'S ACTUALLY A
COMPUTER ALGORITHM THAT HAD
CERTAIDS THAT
ASSOCIATED WITH POSITIVE OR
NEGATIVE NEWS FEED POSTS. THE AY
AUTOMATICALLY WITHOUT ANY
HANDS-ON INVOLVEMENT OF
FACEBOOK.
THAT'S BECAUSE THEY WANTED TO
KEEP THESE RESEARCH SUBJECTS
TOTALLY ANONYMOUS.
SO THE ALGORITHM DECIDED WHICH
POSTS WERE POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE
AND THEN AUTOMATICALLY REMOVED
THOSE FROM THE NEWS FEEDS OF
THOSE USERS FOR ABOUT A WEEK.
AND THEN AFTER THAT WEEK WAS UP,
SOME OF THOSE POSTS MIGHT HAVE
BEEN REINTRODUCED TO THOSE NEWS
FEEDS AND THE USERS MIGHT HAVE
EVENTUALLY SEEN THEM.
>> Woodruff: I JUST WANTED TO
READ, ON OUR WEBSITE WE ASKED
SOME OF OUR VISITORS WHAT THEY
THOUGHT ABOUT THIS.
WE GOT COMMENTS BOTH POSITIVE OR
L CRITICAL AND
ERS.
I'M JUST GOEAD TWO
QUICKLY.
ONE FROM SOMEONE NAMED CAREY.
SHE SAID, SO, REED, TERMS OF
SERVICE DON'T SIGN IF YOU DON'T
AGREE.
THAT'S THE POINT.
PEOPLE DON'T READ THE TERMS OF
SERVICE AND THEY GET UPSET IF
FACEBOOK DOES SOMETHING THAT THE
TERMS ALLOWS.
THEN FROM ANOTHER VISITOR,
SCOTTY.
HE WROTE THE PROBLEM IS THE
TERMS OF SERVICE IS DELIBERATELY
SO VAGUE THAT THEY CAN BASICALLY
CLAIM THAT THEY DO WHATE
WANT AT ANY TIME.
WOULD YOU BUY A TV FROM SONY IF
THE MANUAL SAID THAT THEY COULD
FOR ANY REASON DECIDE WHAT
PROGRAMS YOU COULD WATCH ON
THEIR TV?
HOW TYPICAL WOULD YOU SAY THOSE
REACTIONS ARE?
>> OH, I THINK THEY'R VERY
TYPICAL.
WE SAW SIMILAR REACTIONS ON OUR
OWN WEBSITE IN THE COMMENT
SECTION.
AND I THINK WHAT ACADECMI
REEARCRS AS, YES,
FACEBOOK HAS THESE TERMS OF
SERVICE THAT REALLY ENDEMNIFY
THEM AGAINST ANY LEGAL
REPERCUSSIONS, ALTHOUGH THAT MAY
BE DEBATED IN BUT
THERE REALLY NEEDS TO BE -- IN
ORDER FOR THIS ACADEMIC RESEARCH
TO BE ETHICAL ACCORDING TO VERY
ACCEPTABLE -- ACCEPTED
GUIDELINES, THERE NEEDS TO BE
OTHER TERMS OF SERVICE.
USEED TO BE ASKED AGAIN
WHEN THEY'RE BEING ENTERED INTO
A STY IF THEY WNT TO AND THEY
NEED TO BE TOLD ABOUT THE RISKS.
IN THIS CASE, THE RISK COULD
HAVE BEEN IF SOMEONE WAS
PREDISPOSED TO DEPRESSION.
THAT MIGHT HAVE TRIGGERED SOME
SO OF EMOTIONAL INSTABILITY.
SO THERE ARE BIG QUESTIONS THAT
WE NEED TO ANSWER HERE.
>> Woodruff: CERTAINLY ARE.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE DIDN'T
EVEN REALIZE HOW MUCH -- THERE'S
USTJ A REGULAR ADJUSTMENT OF
WHAT PEOPLE SEE ON THEIR
FACEBOOK PAGES.
BUT THAT'S A SUBJECT FOR A
FUTURE CONVERSATION.
REED ALBERGOTTI, WE THANK YOU.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: THE SUPREME COURT'S
TERM WRAPPED UP YESTERDAY WITH
MAJOR SPLIT DECISIONS DEALING
WITH THE HEALTH CARE LAW AND
LABOR UNIONS.
JEFF IS BACK WITH A LOOK AT THE
BIG DECISIONS FROM THIS YEAR.
>> Brown: THERE WERE MANY
INCREMENTAL STEPS, A FEW
DRAMATIC ES, AND A NUMBER OF
UNANIMOUS DECISIONS ALONG THE
WAY, BUT STARK DIVISIONS REMAIN
ON MAJOR ISSUES, INCLUDING
CAMPAIGN FINANCE, THE ERCISE
OF RELIGION, WOMEN'S ACCESS TO
MEDICAL CARE, AND RACE.
WE LOOK BACK AT THE TERM, WITH
SOLICITOR GENERAL UNDER
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
NOW A LAWYER IN PRIVATE PRACTICE
IN W
HE ARGUED SEVERAL CASES BEFORE
THE COURT THIS TERM.
ERIN MURPHY, FORMER LAW CLERK TO
CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN ROBERTS, ALSO
NOW AN ATTORNEY IN WASHINGTON.
SHE ARGUED HER FIRST CASE BEFORE
THE HIGH COURT THIS PAST
OCTOBER.
AND OUR OWN REGULAR GUIDTO TE
COURT, RCIA COYLE OF THE
NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL.
MARCIA, LET ME START WITH YOU.
START US OFF HERE.
WAS THERE A MAJOR THEME OR
THREAD THAT YOU SAW THIS PAST
RM FOR THE COURT?
>> I WOULDN'T SAY THERE'S ONE
MAJOR THEME.
I THINK THERE'S SEVERAL.
I RECALL WHEN THE TERM STARTED,
THERE WAS THE POTENTIA FOR IT
TO END WI BLOCKBUSTER
DECISIONS, MAINLY BECAUSE A
NUMBER OF CONSERVATIVE AND
LIBERTARIAN ORGANIZATIONS WERE
KING THE COURT TO REVISIT OR
OVERRULE SOME KEY PRECEDENCE IN
A RIETY OF LEGAL AREAS, FROM
CAMPAIGN FINANCE TO AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION TO SECURITIES TO UNIONS,
EVEN TO A MAJOR PRECEDENT
INVOLVING INDIANA TRIBES --
INDIAN TRIBES SOVEREIGN AND
UNITY.
ULTIMATELY, THE COURT DID NOT
OVERRULE THOSE DECISIONS AND
RULED NARROWLY.
RULED NARROWLY BUT NOT IG
SIGNIFICANTLY.
AND I THINK IF -- INCIGLY.
I -- INSIGNIFICANTLY.
AND I THINK IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT
THE COURT DID OVERALL, SOME
WOULD SAY THIS TERM WAS AN
EXAMPLE OF WHAT JOHN ROBERTS
SAID DURING HIS CONFIRMATION
HEARINGS, THAT HE WANTED TO BE A
MINIMALIST JUDGE.
HIS CRITICS MIGHT SAY, HOWEVER,
THAT HE'S PLAYING A LONG GAME
BECAUSE A NUMBER OF THESE OLD
DECISNS THAT WEREN'T OVERRULED
WERE CUT BACK AND SOME ARE
HANGING BY A THREAD OFFER ONE
VOTE -- OR ONE VOTE.
>> Brown: ERIN MURPHY, TAKE US
INTO ONE AREA, THE QUESTION OF
EXECUTIVE POWER.
>> SURE.
Brown: WE SAW THAT IN SOME OF
THE CASES.
DID Y SEEOU STATEMENT BEING
MADE BY THE COURT IN THAT AREA?
>> I'M NOT SURE THERE'S A
PARTICULAR STATEMENT BEING MADE
BY THE COURT, BUT THERE
CERTAINLY WERE SOME BIGEXECUTE .
THE NOR CANNON CASE IS THE MOST
HIGH PROFILE ONE.
THIS IS THE SCOPE OF THE
PRESIDENT'S APPOINTMENT POWER
WHEN TH NOTIS
SESSION.
ANIT'SN INTERESTING CASE IN
REFLECTING WHAT MARCIAIS TAKIN
ABOUT BECAUSE YOU HAVE A
UNANIMOUS COURT HOLDING THAT THE
PARTICULAR APPOINTMENTS AT ISSUE
ARE APPOINTMENTS MADE BY
PRESIDENT OBAMA A FEW YEARS AGO
WERE UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
YOU THEN HAVE A MINORITY OF THE
COURT THAT WOULD HAVE HELD MORE
BROADLY THAT A NUMBER OF
OTHER -- UNDER A THEORY THAT
WOULD HAVE CALLED INTO QUESTION
THE CONSTITUTIONALITY A NUMBER
OF OTHER APPOINTMENT THAT WOULD
HAVE BEEN MADE AND THE MAJORITY
OF THE COURT DECLINED TO TAKE
THAT BROADER STEP THAT WOULD
HAVE HAD MUCH BROADER
IMPLICATIONS.
>>rownNEAL KATL D YOU
SEE CLEAR FROM EXECUTIVE POWER
ON THIS COURT?
>> I THINK THE EXECUTIVE POWER
WAS SOMEWHAT DIVIDED.
I THINK THE BIG THEME OF THIS
COURT RETURNING TO THE QUESTION
YOU ASKED MARCIA, IT'S NOT JUST
JOHN ROBERTS' PROMISE AT HIS
CONFIRMATION HEARINGS TO RULE
MINIMALLY BUT ALSO HIS IDEA HE
WANTED TO BUILD CONSENSUS ON THE
COURT.
IF ONE LOOKS AT THIS COURT, IT'S
STRIKING WHAT JOHN ROBERTS AND
HIS EIGHT COLLEAGUES
ACCOMPLISHED THIS YEAR.
TWO-THIRDS OF THE CASES WERE
DECIDED UNANIMOUSLY.
YOU'D HAVE TO B
WAY TO 1940 TO FIND A SIMILAR
TIME PERIOD IN WHICH THE
JUSTICES SO OFTEN AGREED ON
THINGS.
THAT'S THE BOTTOM LINE.
AND SURE, THERE WERE
DISAGREEMENTS AMONG REASONING
AND SO ON, BUT THIS IS A
STRIKING EXAMPLE OF THE CHIEF
JUSTICE AND HIS EIGHT COLLEAGUES
SAYING TO THE COUNTRY, LOOK, I'M
LOOKING AT OTHER BRANCHES OF
GOVERNMENT.
THEY'RE NOT WORKING QUITE THAT
WELL.
THEY'RE VERY DIVISIVE.
THIS IS AN AREA THAT'S WORKED
PRETTY -- THEY'VE WORKED REALLY
WELL.
THE COLLEAGUES ON BOTH SIDES OF
THE AISLE, THE COURT COMING TO
COMMON AGREEMENT ON THE BOTTOM
LINE.
>> Brown: ERIN MURPHY, LET ME
ASK YOU BECAUSE YOU WERE THERE
AT THE COURT, DOES IT WORK THAT
WAY?
THERE'S A SORT OF ATTEMPT TO --
ALMOST A CALCULATED ATTEMPT TO
SAY, WE CAN WKOR TOGETHER?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF I'D USE THE
TERM CALCULATED.
BUT T JUSTICES CERTAINLY TRY
TO WORK TOGETHER AND SOMETIMES
WHAT YOU SEE IS LET'S FIND THE
NARROW AREA WHERE WE CAN ALL
AGREE AND IF IT'S THE KIND OF
CASE THAT CAN BE RESOLVED
WITHOUT GETTING INTO THE
QUESTIONS THAT ARE GOING TO BE
MORE DIVISIVE FOR THE JUSTICES,
THEY'LL TRY THEIR HARDEST TO
FIND WAYS TO RESOLVE CASES IN
THOSE RESPECTS.
AND I THINK WE DID SEE THAT IN A
NUMBER CASES THIS TERM.
>> Brown: AND YET, MARCIA, WE
ALSO, DAWES Y WERE ON THE
PROGRAM MANY TIMES TELLING US
THERE WERE STILL THESE GREAT
DIVISIONS.
WE SAW PLENTY OF THOSE CASES.
>> WELL, THERE WEREN'T A LOT
OF --
>> Brown: THAT'S RIGHT.
THERE WERE KEY ONES.
AND THE AREAS THAT HAD DIVIDED
THE COURTINCE THE BEGINNING OF
THE ROBERTS CURT IN 2005.
THE ADJUSTS ARE SPLIT
IDEOLOGICALLY AND IN THEIR
APPROACH TO INTERPRETING THE
CONSTITUTION, IN AREAS SUCH AS
CAMPAIGN FINANCE.
THE ROBERTS COURT HAS CONTINUED
A DEREGULATION IT HAS YET TO
FIND A CAMPAIGN FINANCE
REGULATION THAT ITS LIKE UNDER
THE FIRST AMENDMENT.
THERTHEY'RE ALSO DIVIDED WHEN IT
COMES TO RELIGION.
AND WE SAW THAT IN A CASE OUT OF
GREECE, NEW YORK, INVOLVING
PRAYERS TO OPEN A LOCAL
GOVERNMENT MEETING.
AND WE SAW A BIT OF IT IN THE
HOBBY LOBBY CASE YESTERDAYHAT
HE TALKED ABOUT INVOLVING -- WE
TALKED ABOUT INVOLVING THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
THEY'RE ALSO DIVIDED ON RACIAL
QUESTIONS.
THE COURT DIDN'T HAVE A TYPICAL
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION CASE THIS
TERM, WHICH GENERALLY ASKS THE
COURT WHETHER YOU CAN USE RACE
IN, SAY, UNIVERSITY'S ADMISSION
POLICY.
INSTEAD, IT HAD A CASE ABOUT
HETHER VOTERS COULD APPROVE A
STATE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
BARRING THE USE OF RACE.
AND EVEN THOUGH THAT CASE CAME
OUT 6-2, WE SAW A REAL
DIFFERE VOICED BY
JUSTICE CIETSOSO MYER ON RACE
ABOUT HOW THE GENERAL MAJORITY
HAS VIEWED RACE.
>> WHERE DO YOU SEE THE BIG
DIVISIONS ON THIS COURT THAT
COME THROUGH, NEAL KATYAL?
>> I THINK MARCIA LISTED THEM
REALLY WELL.
THERE ARE AREAS WHERE THE COURT
IS OF COURSE DIVIDED.
ELECTIONS HAVE CONSEQUENCES.
AND I THINK IF WE LOOK BACK AT
THE LAST FOUR CONFIRMATION
HEARINGS, WE SAW THAT COME OUT
IN THE HEARINGS THEMSELVES.
THAT SAID, I THINK IF WE ASKED
OURSELVES AT EACH OF THOSE
HEARINGS COULD WE HAVE
PREDICTED, FOR EXAMPLE, JOHN
WOULD BE THE VOTE TO UPHOLD
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S HEALTHCARE
PLAN A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO OR
THAT JUSTICE BREYER WOULD WRITE
THE UNANIMOUS OPINION PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S RECESS APPOINTMENTS?
THOSE TWO THINGS AND MANY OTHERS
WHICH THINK WEREN'T QUITE AS
PREDICTABLE FROM ETH
CONFIRMATION HEARINGS.
SO I THINK WE DO SEE THE COURT
TRYING TO FIND COMMON GROUND
WHERE THEY CAN.
IT'S A REMARKABLE ACHIEVEMENT
THAT THE COURT DID THIS YEAR.
>> Brown: SAME QUESTION TO YOU,
ERIN MURPHY.
WHERE DO YOU -- THERE STILL ARE
PLENTY OF DISIONS, RIGHT?
THE MAKEUP OF THE COURT FOR ONE
COMES OUT IN SOME OF THESE
CASES.
>> SURE.
I THINK PART OF IT IS THERE ARE
JUST DIFFERENT APPROACHES TO
UNDERSTANDING THE CONSTITUTION
IN GENERAL AND THOSE JUST AREN'T
GOING TO GO AWAY, AND I THINK
WE'LL ALWAYS SEE THEM NO MATTER
WHO THE JUSTICES ARE ON THE
COURT.
AT THE SAME TIME, EVEN IN SOME
OF THE CASES THAT INVOLVED
DIVISIVE ISSUES, YOU DO SEE
THINGS THAT ARE NOT A 5-4 SPLIT.
A COUPLE OF THEM HAVE BEEN
MENTIONED HERE THAT ARE GREAT
EXAMPLES.
THIS YEAR'S CASE OF RACE
DISCRIMINATION WASN'T 5-4 AND
THERE WAS A FMENTND
INVOLVING ABORTION PROTESTERS
THAT HAD A NOT STRAIGHT-UP 5-4
LINEUP.
SO EVEN WITHIN THOSE DIVISIVE
AREAS YOU SEE THEM TRYING TO
REACH SOME CONSENSUS.
>> Brown: MA,
BOOK ON THE COURT.
I CAN PLUG IT.
HERE WE ARE I DON'T KNOW HOW
MANY YEARS IN.
>> IN TH IS THE NINTH YEAR.
Brown: WHERE DOES THIS TERM
KIND OF TAKE IT?
>> WELL, I THINK -- I BELIEVE
EVERY TERM'S DIFFERENT.
AND WHAT WE SAW THIS TERM MAY
NOT NECESSARILY PLAY OUT AGAIN
NEXT TERM.
BUT AS WE'VE TALKED, THERE ARE
CERTAIN THINGS THAT -- CERTAIN
AREAS WHERE THE COURT HAS BEEN
CONSISTENT IN TERMS OF ITS
DIVISION.
AND ALSO WHERE IT DOES SEEK OUT
UNAN IM.
-- UNAN I.
I REMEMBER JUSTICE BREYER
TELLING ME THAT THE KEY TO
SITTING AROUND THAT CONFERENCE
TAB WHEN THEY'RE TRYING TO
HAMMER OUT THESE ISSUES IS TO
REALLY LISTEN, LISTEN HARD, AND
TRY TO FIND THE AREAS THAT YOU
MIGHT BE ABLE TO FORGE
AGREEMENT.
I THINK IT'S A VERY INTERESTING
COURT.
IT IS STRIVING TO FIND AREAS
WHERE IT CAN AGREE, BUT IT'S
GOING TO CONTINUE, AS ERIN SAID
TO HAVE THESE DIVISIONS IN THE
OTHER AREAS.
>> Brown: I THINK JUSTICE BREYER
AND JUSTICE ALITO HAD THEIR BEST
TERMS EVER ON THE COURT.
JUSTICE ALITO YET RIGHTING TWO
VERY SIGNIFICANT OPINIONS IN
HOBBY LOBBY AND IN THE UNION
CASE.
JUSTICE BREYER, AS I MENTIONED,
WITH THE RECESS APPOINTMENTS
OPINION.
THESE ARE TWO -- THESE ARE THREE
PRETTY STRIKING OPINIONS SHOWING
JUSTICES THAT I THINK A LOT OF
COURT WATCHERS HAD LONG
PREDICTED WOULD UNFOLD THEIR WAY
IN THE SAND, BECOMES INER
THE COURT.
THIS TERM THAT PROVED RIGHT.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, NEAL
KATYAL, ERIN MURPHY, AND
MICHIGAN.
MEASE
MARCIA COYLE.
THANK YOU A
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
IRAQ'S PARLIAMENT CONVENED, BUT
FAILED TO MAKE ANY HEADWAY
TOWARD CHOOSING A NEW
GOVERNMENT.
HEAVFIGHY NG SEIZED EASTERN
UKRAINE, ONE DAY AFTER THE
GOVERNMENT ENDED A CEASE-FIRE
WITH PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS.
WALL STREET STARTED THE MONTH
STRONG.
THE DOW INDUSTRIALS GAINED 129
POINTS.
AND IN THE WORLD CUP, BELGIUM
BEAT THE U.S., TWO-ONE, IN
OVERTIME, DESPITE 16 SAVES BY
U.S. GOAILIE TIM HOWARD, THE
MOST SAVES SINCE RECORDS HAVE
BEEN KEPT IN THE CUP.
BUT THE LOSS ENDS AMERICAN HOPES
OF ADVANCING TO THE
QUARTERFINALS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, MERRIT JOHNSON WANTS TO
CHALLENGE THE PERCEPTION OF
NATIVE AMERICAN ART AS ONLY
"BEADS AND FEATHERS."
THE SCULPTOR, WHO ISF MOHAWK
AND BLACKFOOT DESCENT, IS PART
OF A NEW EXHIBIT THAT SHOWCASES
A BROAD SPECTRUM OF CONTEMPORARY
WORKS FROM NATIVE AMERICAN
ARTISTS.
SEE SOME OF THOSE PIECES ON ART
BEAT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND AGAIN, TO OUR HONOR ROLL OF
AMERICAN SERVICE PERSONNEL
KILLED IN THE AFGHANISTAN
CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEMAT AS THEIR HS ADE
FFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, IS ONE MORE.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE LOOK BACK AT
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT.
50 YEARS TO THE DAY AFTER
PRESIDENT LYNDON JOHNSON SIGNED
NDMARK LEGISLATION INTO
LAW.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE, AND AIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.